# SCM-Practice-Zavala
Software Configuration Management is an umbrella term for all activity and methods in the efforts to identify, control, audit, and reports modifications that occur while software is being developed. 

In greater detail identify refers to the process of building your software configuration management, such as deadlines, software scopes, roles, and more. Then change control is important as multiple users making changes at the same time would be chaotic, having control over what changes are made becomes essential. While also managing different versions of the software and keeping a history of all past changes. Audits are also performed to ensure that the processes of software configuration management are being performed correctly. Lastly managing reports such as documentation when they are also being modified.  

## How GitHub Helps with SCM
GitHub can help in all these tasks making software configuration management easier. Documentation created from identifying the software requirements, scope, roles, deadlines and more can be stored in GitHub. Doing so gives the advantage of keeping track of any changes that are made during the development of the software. This is especially important since the scope and software requirement, and more can change over time. GitHub is also able to handle change control very well, as it provides several tools to do so. Such as creating a new branch from the main branch to work on, for example this branch could be focused on solving a specific bug. Then once that bug is fixed it can be pull requested where other developers are able to review the changes, test them, before merging with the main branch. Furthermore, during this process a developer can write comments, notes, and their actions are tied to them. This is great for keeping proper documentation of past changes, and who worked on and approved these changes. GitHub makes this easy by automatically keeping a history of all changes. GitHub also helps in keeping track of versions of the software by having different releases. This helps promote stable software, by saving past releases that are stable in the event of the newest release being unstable. GitHub manages all the history of changes and keeps records of actions done by a developer, which helps in the auditing of the software. Allowing auditors to view the past changes and ensuring they follow the guidelines of software configuration management. Then if a guideline is not being followed proper accountability can be taken as GitHub keeps track of which developer performed certain actions. GitHub can also keep track of changes made in documentation and reports, following the same procedure of code. Allowing documentation and reports to stay up to date as code is changed throughout the life cycle of the software.  
